.TH CATIMG "1" "June 2020" "catimg" "General Commands Manual"

.SH NAME
catimg \- fast image printing in to your terminal

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B catimg
[\fB-hct\fP] [\fB-w\fR \fIWIDTH\fP | \fB-H\fR \fIHEIGHT\fP] [\fB-l\fR \fILOOPS\fP] [\fB-r\fR \fIRESOLUTION\fP] IMAGE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B catimg
is a little program written in C with no dependencies that prints images in the terminal.
It supports JPEG, PNG and GIF formats.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR
Convert colors to a restricted palette.
This is useful when terminal only support a limited set of colors.
This transformation should be more accurate than the one performed by the terminal.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Prints a help message
.TP
\fB\-H\fR \fIHEIGHT\fR
Specify the height of the displayed image, passing '0' will use terminal height.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fILOOPS\fR
Specify the amount of loops that catimg should repeat a GIF.
A value of 1 means that the GIF will be displayed twice. A negative value implies infinity.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR \fIRESOLUTION\fR
Possible values 1 or 2. Force the resolution of the image.
By default catimg will check if rendering in higher resolution is possible and do so or use the lower one.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR
Disables true color (24-bit) support, falling back to 256 color escape codes instead.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR \fIWIDTH\fR
Specify the width of the displayed image, by default catimg will use the terminal width.

.SH EXAMPLES
Here some examples how to use catimg.
.nf
.PP
Ouput of image to terminal width, that is the default:
.PP
.RS
catimg ~/Pictures/examples-image.jpg
or
catimg -w 0 ~/Pictures/examples-image.jpg
.RE
.PP
Ouput of image to terminal height:
.PP
.RS
catimg -H 0 ~/Pictures/examples-image.jpg
.RE
.PP
Ouput of image with resolution set to 1 and half of terminal width:
.PP
.RS
export RESOLUTION=1
export HALF_TERM_WIDTH=$(( $RESOLUTION * $(stty size | cut -d" " -f2) / 2 ))
catimg -r ${RESOLUTION} -w ${HALF_TERM_WIDTH} ~/Pictures/examples-image.jpg
.RE
.PP
And the same with resolution set to 2 and half of terminal width:
.PP
.RS
export RESOLUTION=2
# the below lines stay the same
export HALF_TERM_WIDTH=$(( ${RESOLUTION} * $(stty size | cut -d" " -f2) / 2 ))
catimg -r ${RESOLUTION} -w ${HALF_TERM_WIDTH} ~/Pictures/examples-image.jpg
.RE
.PP
.fi

.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs to https://github.com/posva/catimg/issues.

.SH AUTHORS
catimg was written by Eduardo San Martin Morote (https://github.com/posva)
.LP
This manual page was written by Jonathan Carter <jcarter@linux.com> and Eduardo San Martin Morote and extended by Thomas Kupper
